we can now report that uh Israeli
hostages in Gaza have been transferred
to the Red Cross and are currently on
their way to the border crossing with
Egypt the Rafa border crossing this is
coming from reuter's news agency which
is citing Israeli TV channel so I'll
repeat that Israeli captives in Gaza
have been transferred to the Red Cross
and they're currently as we speak on
their way to the border crossing with
Egypt so this is in line with how the
deal was supposed to work 13 Israeli
captives that have been held in Gaza by
Hamas uh since October the 7th were
scheduled to be released sometime after
4 p.m. it's currently 4:30 and the Red
Cross was expected to be was meant to be
facilitating this get them out of Gaza
through the Rafa border crossing that's
the border with Egypt where Israeli
helicopters have been standing by
waiting for them Israeli TV channels now
reporting that that is currently
underway let me bring in Daniel Levy uh
Daniel is the president of the US Middle
East project and a former Israeli
negotiator you're joining us from London
as a former negotiator you just heard
what I said in this latest reporting
this is coming from Israeli TV channels
what's your
reaction I've not done hostage
negotiations just just to caveat that
sirel well look we can only feel Joy
that not only on the human
level these people these Israelis the 13
in this first Bunch it seems some ties
today as well uh will be getting out on
the human level that Gaza is not subject
to bombardment we will not see the
devastation of the last weeks at least
for four days we must not return to it
maybe we'll come back to that
Palestinians who have been held in
Israeli prisons will be reunited with
their family so that's that's all on the
human level slightly different level we
are now apparently already in the proof
of
concept that you can have a negotiated
release you can have a sensation of
hostilities that the Cy
mediation has been
successful that the pressure exerted by
the families inside Israel on their own
political leadership who were extremely
reluctant to go down this path has paid
off so there's a lot of and it's going
to be fraught it's going to be tense
there are things that could still go
wrong but we have a crucial first step
in a proof of concept which offers us a
way out of the hellscape of the last
weeks but we're a long way from
achieving all of that Daniel just let me
remind our viewers of what they're
seeing on their screen right now you've
got the center of your screen and in the
top right center of your screen is the
Rafa border crossing that is where the
Israeli captives are now being brought
whether we might end up seeing this on
this live shot I I really can't tell you
um and the top right corner of your
screen is the ofer security facility um
also a life shot that's in the occupied
West Bank and that is where we are
expecting P 39 Palestinian prisoners to
be at some point today released um
Daniel thanks for your your patience
here where do you think this takes us
you say we have proof of concept then
what then what is the crucial question I
don't know if we do get an extension
beyond the initial four days there will
be efforts to that effect I fear that
even if that succeeds it will not give
us the permanent cessation of the of
this Israeli military campaign of this
bombardment of the for 14 a half
thousand deaths 6,000 children I fear we
won't get that
unless unless at least two or three
things happen the pressure inside Israel
with this new Dynamic seeing the people
come out seeing this proof the pressure
escalates on the military leadership
because the political and Military
leadership are saying in Israel that the
two go hand in hand only the military
campaign got us to this deal we can only
get the Israelis out with a tough
military campaign that's their narrative
I think it's untrue I think this deal
was available for a long time it only
happened when there was pressure so I
think the only way you get the next
phase of a next deal for a release is if
there's that internal dynamic in Israel
which becomes even more ramped up
secondly we need the external pressure
what we're reading and hearing and I'm
hearing in conversations at the moment
is America is not pushing Israel for an
overall ceasefire that the president and
his team are asking the Israelis to
carry out the next phase of the war in a
more surgical way that sounds like a
rash Act of
irresponsibility of complicity because
as we've all been looking at this you
have a much larger Palestinian
population civilian population crammed
into a much smaller area in the South
that's where the Israelis will go to
next if they carry on the military
campaign which they intend to and that
will lead to even more loss Devastation
destruction so we have to try and avoid
that I don't think the Americans are
there yet and unless they put pressure I
worry that we're not seeing the end of
the horrible images but the pressure may
increase also just because Western media
who haven't been in Gaza may go in there
more they may get more of an accurate
picture of what has actually been done
so we're going to have to have this
inside outside push well to be clear for
the moment the ceasefire deal does not
include any provisions for any other
media to go inside Gaza I hear what
you're saying but that question was
asked directly of the uh spokesperson
for the qari foreign Ministry he said
for the moment no there's no provision
to allow more journalists into Gaza um
and if you're Israel you can understand
exactly why they're preventing that by
the way and I think they're also going
to try and keep a lid on the stories I
don't think it's going to be that easy a
lid on the stories that you know these
people are going to come out let's see
how they are they be reunited with their
families but at some stage we're going
to hear how are they and again that
could be proof of concept that the
Israelis can come out alive in
relatively good condition and that will
induce I hope more pressure Daniel thank
you very much for that snap analysis as
we have just found out and hearing the
reporting from Israeli TV channels that
the Israeli uh captives are on their way
out of Gaza as we speak leave you there
thank you very much